
It is the end of week 1 of the COVID-19 “lockdown.” I am very lucky: I have a
job for which it is possible to work from home and an employer who is
understanding about employees with children.

Still, I have found this week extremely frustrating. I have felt simultaneously
that I have more work to do than usual and, at the same time, that I am not
doing what is important. In an attempt to understand what was going on, I wrote
down all the things I did on one particular day. I included anything that was
done from my home office: so domestic administrative tasks were in, along with
work; ironing was out.

Looking at the list, it struck me that many of the tasks were _gratuitous_. I
need to fix a mistake by HMRC, or cancel an insurance policy, or chase up my
employer's benefits provider for failing to do something. These tasks need to be
done -- if I don't do them, bad things will happen -- but they seem so
_unnecessary_. At first, I thought this explained my frustration. After all, why
am I wasting my time? Aren't we supposed to have AI already? But on reflection,
I am not sure this explains all my malaise.

What I think is the problem is this: most of my tasks are _urgent_, but very few
of them are _important_. It turns out that this observation has been made
before: Dwight Eisnhower said, “I have two kinds of problems, the urgent and the
important. The urgent are not important, and the important are never urgent.” I
two have these two kinds of problems. The urgent ones tend to be managerial: a
decision needs to be made; a direction changed; a project pushed back on
track. The important ones are not obvious: try something, figure out a long-term
solution.

Up to this week I've managed to balance importance and urgency. Or, anyway, I
have felt that I have. But this week two things happened. One is that my time is
suddenly reduced because half my time is now childcare. On its own, that has
meant that all the important things dropped off my tasklist because I only have
time for urgent things. And the other is that some new important _and_ urgent
tasks hove into view. The net result is that I can see the important tasks but I
have no time to do them. 

And that is a problem. Possibly an important problem.















